---
layout: post
title: "Terra Launches!"
date: 2019-08-15
---

Logistics: This website is for hosting academic work samples in HTML format. 
It is powered by [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com); I'll use Markdown to author my posts.

Today's Thoughts: "The best analysts are lightning-fast coders who can surf vast datasets quickly, encountering and surfacing potential insights 
faster than those other specialists can say “whiteboard.” Their semi-sloppy coding style baffles traditional software engineers 
— but leaves them in the dust. Speed is their highest virtue, closely followed by the ability to identify potentially useful 
gems. A mastery of visual presentation of information helps, too: beautiful and effective plots allow the mind to extract 
information faster, which pays off in time-to-potential-insights.


The result is that the business gets a finger on its pulse and eyes on previously-unknown unknowns. This generates the 
inspiration that helps decision-makers select valuable quests to send statisticians and ML engineers on, saving them from 
mathematically-impressive excavations of useless rabbit holes.

Sloppy nonsense or stellar storytelling?
“But,” object the statisticians, “most of their so-called insights are nonsense.” By that they mean the results of their 
exploration may reflect only noise. Perhaps, but there’s more to the story.Analysts are data storytellers. Their mandate 
is to summarize interesting facts and to use data for inspiration. In some organizations those facts and that inspiration 
become input for human decision-makers. But in more sophisticated data operations, data-driven inspiration gets flagged for 
proper statistical follow-up.

Good analysts have unwavering respect for the one golden rule of their profession: do not come to conclusions beyond the data 
(and prevent your audience from doing it, too). To this end, one way to spot a good analyst is that they use softened, hedging 
language. For example, not “we conclude” but “we are inspired to wonder”. They also discourage leaders’ overconfidence by 
emphasizing a multitude of possible interpretations for every insight.

As long as analysts stick to the facts — saying only “This is what is here.” — and don’t take themselves too seriously, the 
worst crime they could commit is wasting someone’s time when they run it by them."

- From The Harvard Business Review, "What Great Data Analysts Do — and Why Every Organization Needs Them," Cassie Kozyrkov,
DECEMBER 04, 2018.
